docs/docs/2-setup.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Setup
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

[hashicorp-aws] can be used for both and **automatic GitHub Action based** and **Screwdriver CD based** deployments.

Setup
-----

The following credentials and config files need to be ready:

### AWS

- [AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID]
- [AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY]

:::info

The _IAM user_ associated with the credentials above must have the following [AWS permissions policies]:

- IAMFullAccess
- AmazonEC2FullAccess
- AmazonRoute53FullAccess

:::

### SSL

Let's image the following scenario:

1. I purchased a domain from [Google Domain][Google Domain] called **my-domain.com**
2. I developed a web app that will be exposed at **my-app.my-domain.com**
3. I will deploy my app to [AWS EC2][AWS EC2] using HashiCorp AWS
4. When my app is up and running, I need to automatically enable secure SSL communication so that my app can be visited
   at `https://my-app.my-domain.com`

We will expose our EC2 under that domain using [aws_route53_record][HashiCorp Terraform aws_route53_record], which
allows us to dynamically bind EC2 IP to its hosted domain so that each time when a new EC2 instance is instantiated,
that instance will register its IP to `my-domain.com` on Route 53.

:::tip What if my domain is on Google Domain, not on Route 53?

In this case, we can simply connect Google Domain to AWS Route 53 in the following steps

1. Create a Hosted Zone in AWS Route 53:

    - Login into AWS Management Console and head towards Route 53
    - In Route 53 -> Click **Hosted zones** -> Click **Create Hosted Zone**
    - Fill in **Domain Name** and select **Type** as **Public Hosted Zone** and click create

2. Update Google Domain to use custom [name servers](https://www.domain.com/help/article/what-is-a-nameserver)

    - Log into [Google Domain][Google Domain] account and click on **My domains**
    - Click on **DNS**
    - At the top of the page, select **Custom name servers**
    - Copy and paste all four Name Server (NS) from the Route 53 Record Sets panel (Under "Hosted zone details") and
      click **save**

:::

- **SSL certificate file** We will refer to the contents of this file as **SSL_CERTIFICATE** from now on
- **SSL certificate key file** We will refer to the contents of this file as **SSL_CERTIFICATE_KEY** from now on
- **Nginx Reverse Proxy Config file** We will refer to the contents of this file as **NGINX_CONFIG_FILE** from now on

If you are not very familiar with HTTPS/SSL, do worry, the
[next section](#installing-free-ssl-certificates-with-certbot-running-on-nginx) offers a step-by-step guide to help you
get the 3 files above ready in a minute!

:::tip

If you have your preferred approach or already have the 3 files above ready, please kip the
[next section](#installing-free-ssl-certificates-with-certbot-running-on-nginx)

:::

#### Installing Free SSL Certificates with Certbot running on Nginx

[Let's Encrypt] provides free SSL certificates for our websites to use secure connections. [Certbot] is free open
source software that allows us to easily create Let's Encrypt SSLs on our Linux server, such as Ubuntu VM.

##### Installing Certbot on Ubuntu

We will install Certbot on Ubuntu with _snapd_ using the following steps:

1. Install _snapd_:

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt install snapd
   ```

2. Ensure the latest snapd version has been installed:

   ```bash
   sudo snap install core; sudo snap refresh core
   ```

3. Install Certbot with snapd:

   ```bash
   sudo snap install --classic certbot
   ```

4. Create a symlink to ensure Certbot runs:

   ```bash
   sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/certbot
   ```

5. [Install Nginx](https://stackoverflow.com/a/64571090/14312712), assuming we use Nginx-based Certbot

   ```bash
   sudo apt install python3-certbot-nginx -y
   ```

##### Creating SSL Certificate with Certbot

:::caution

HTTP:80 must be open on the server

:::

After [Certbot has been installed](#installing-certbot-on-ubuntu), run Certbot to create SSL certificates and modify
Nginx configuration file to automatically redirect HTTP requests to HTTPS. Or, add "certonly" to create the SSL
certificates without modifying system files:

```bash
sudo certbot --nginx
```

##### Configuring Reverse Proxy on Nginx

After certificates have been deployed and Nginx has been configured properly for SSL by Certbot, it's time to configure
routing to direct HTTPS to local HTTP by modifying **/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default** file.

Locate the section of

```text
server {
    ...

    listen [::]:443 ssl ipv6only=on;
    listen 443 ssl;
    ssl_certificate /etc/ssl/certs/server.crt;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/ssl/private/server.key;
}
```

Add the proxy routing rule in the `server` block above

```text
    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
    }
```

In this example, we have a webservice running at port 8080. Essentially this will redirect all HTTPS request to this
local port, effectively enabling HTTPS on the webservice

:::info

The complete Nginx config file, in the end, will look something like:

```text
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;

    root /var/www/html;

    index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;

    server_name _;

    location / {
        try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
    }
}

server {
    root /var/www/html;

    index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;
    server_name ws-domain.com;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
    }

    listen [::]:443 ssl ipv6only=on;
    listen 443 ssl;
    ssl_certificate /etc/ssl/certs/server.crt;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/ssl/private/server.key;
}
server {
    if ($host = ws-domain.com) {
        return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
    }

    listen 80 ;
    listen [::]:80 ;
    server_name ws-domain.com;
    return 404;
}
```

In the config above, Nginx assumes the certificate file and its key file are located at **/etc/ssl/certs/server.crt**
and **/etc/ssl/private/server.key**

:::

Deployment via Screwdriver
--------------------------

Deployment via Screwdriver CD Running Locally
---------------------------------------------

[AWS AMI]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html
[AWS EC2]: https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/
[AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html
[AWS permissions policies]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction_access-management.html
[AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html

[Certbot]: https://certbot.eff.org/

[Google Domain]: https://domains.google/

[HashiCorp Terraform aws_route53_record]: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record.html

[Let's Encrypt]: https://qubitpi.github.io/letsencrypt-website/

Commit message:

Document how to spin up Screwdriver CD locally in Docker Compose (#96)
* Document how to spin up Screwdriver CD locally in Docker Compose

* Document how to spin up Screwdriver CD locally in Docker Compose

docs/docs/2-setup.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Setup
---

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

[hashicorp-aws] can be used for both and **automatic GitHub Action based** and **Screwdriver CD based** deployments.

Setup
-----

The following credentials and config files need to be ready:

### AWS

- [AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID]
- [AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY]

:::info

The _IAM user_ associated with the credentials above must have the following [AWS permissions policies]:

- IAMFullAccess
- AmazonEC2FullAccess
- AmazonRoute53FullAccess

:::

### SSL

Let's image the following scenario:

1. I purchased a domain from [Google Domain][Google Domain] called **my-domain.com**
2. I developed a web app that will be exposed at **my-app.my-domain.com**
3. I will deploy my app to [AWS EC2][AWS EC2] using HashiCorp AWS
4. When my app is up and running, I need to automatically enable secure SSL communication so that my app can be visited
   at `https://my-app.my-domain.com`

We will expose our EC2 under that domain using [aws_route53_record][HashiCorp Terraform aws_route53_record], which
allows us to dynamically bind EC2 IP to its hosted domain so that each time when a new EC2 instance is instantiated,
that instance will register its IP to `my-domain.com` on Route 53.

:::tip What if my domain is on Google Domain, not on Route 53?

In this case, we can simply connect Google Domain to AWS Route 53 in the following steps

1. Create a Hosted Zone in AWS Route 53:

    - Login into AWS Management Console and head towards Route 53
    - In Route 53 -> Click **Hosted zones** -> Click **Create Hosted Zone**
    - Fill in **Domain Name** and select **Type** as **Public Hosted Zone** and click create

2. Update Google Domain to use custom [name servers](https://www.domain.com/help/article/what-is-a-nameserver)

    - Log into [Google Domain][Google Domain] account and click on **My domains**
    - Click on **DNS**
    - At the top of the page, select **Custom name servers**
    - Copy and paste all four Name Server (NS) from the Route 53 Record Sets panel (Under "Hosted zone details") and
      click **save**

:::

- **SSL certificate file** We will refer to the contents of this file as **SSL_CERTIFICATE** from now on
- **SSL certificate key file** We will refer to the contents of this file as **SSL_CERTIFICATE_KEY** from now on
- **Nginx Reverse Proxy Config file** We will refer to the contents of this file as **NGINX_CONFIG_FILE** from now on

If you are not very familiar with HTTPS/SSL, do worry, the
[next section](#installing-free-ssl-certificates-with-certbot-running-on-nginx) offers a step-by-step guide to help you
get the 3 files above ready in a minute!

:::tip

If you have your preferred approach or already have the 3 files above ready, please kip the
[next section](#installing-free-ssl-certificates-with-certbot-running-on-nginx)

:::

#### Installing Free SSL Certificates with Certbot running on Nginx

[Let's Encrypt] provides free SSL certificates for our websites to use secure connections. [Certbot] is free open
source software that allows us to easily create Let's Encrypt SSLs on our Linux server, such as Ubuntu VM.

##### Installing Certbot on Ubuntu

We will install Certbot on Ubuntu with _snapd_ using the following steps:

1. Install _snapd_:

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt install snapd
   ```

2. Ensure the latest snapd version has been installed:

   ```bash
   sudo snap install core; sudo snap refresh core
   ```

3. Install Certbot with snapd:

   ```bash
   sudo snap install --classic certbot
   ```

4. Create a symlink to ensure Certbot runs:

   ```bash
   sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/certbot
   ```

5. [Install Nginx](https://stackoverflow.com/a/64571090/14312712), assuming we use Nginx-based Certbot

   ```bash
   sudo apt install python3-certbot-nginx -y
   ```

##### Creating SSL Certificate with Certbot

:::caution

HTTP:80 must be open on the server

:::

After [Certbot has been installed](#installing-certbot-on-ubuntu), run Certbot to create SSL certificates and modify
Nginx configuration file to automatically redirect HTTP requests to HTTPS. Or, add "certonly" to create the SSL
certificates without modifying system files:

```bash
sudo certbot --nginx
```

##### Configuring Reverse Proxy on Nginx

After certificates have been deployed and Nginx has been configured properly for SSL by Certbot, it's time to configure
routing to direct HTTPS to local HTTP by modifying **/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default** file.

Locate the section of

```text
server {
    ...

    listen [::]:443 ssl ipv6only=on;
    listen 443 ssl;
    ssl_certificate /etc/ssl/certs/server.crt;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/ssl/private/server.key;
}
```

Add the proxy routing rule in the `server` block above

```text
    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
    }
```

In this example, we have a webservice running at port 8080. Essentially this will redirect all HTTPS request to this
local port, effectively enabling HTTPS on the webservice

:::info

The complete Nginx config file, in the end, will look something like:

```text
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;

    root /var/www/html;

    index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;

    server_name _;

    location / {
        try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
    }
}

server {
    root /var/www/html;

    index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;
    server_name ws-domain.com;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
    }

    listen [::]:443 ssl ipv6only=on;
    listen 443 ssl;
    ssl_certificate /etc/ssl/certs/server.crt;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/ssl/private/server.key;
}
server {
    if ($host = ws-domain.com) {
        return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
    }

    listen 80 ;
    listen [::]:80 ;
    server_name ws-domain.com;
    return 404;
}
```

In the config above, Nginx assumes the certificate file and its key file are located at **/etc/ssl/certs/server.crt**
and **/etc/ssl/private/server.key**

:::

Deployment via Screwdriver
--------------------------

Deployment via Screwdriver CD Running Locally
---------------------------------------------

### Requirements

- Python 3.7+
- [Docker]
- [Docker Compose 1.8.1+][docker-compose]

### Steps

1. [Login to Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login) with your Docker username (not
   email) or install [Docker Desktop]
2. Run the command below in the terminal to bring up a Screwdriver cluster locally.

   ```bash
   /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/QubitPi/hashicorp-aws/master/hashicorp/screwdriver/run-docker-compose-locally.sh)"
   ```

3. You will be prompted to enter your desired SCM provider as well as the Client ID and Client Secret. Afterwards, type
   `y` to launch Screwdriver!

- API: `http://10.8.0.6:9001/v4/documentation#/`
- More documentations is [here](https://qubitpi.github.io/screwdriver-cd-guide/cluster-management/running-locally)

[AWS AMI]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html
[AWS EC2]: https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/
[AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html
[AWS permissions policies]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction_access-management.html
[AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html

[Certbot]: https://certbot.eff.org/

[Docker]: https://www.docker.com/products/docker
[docker-compose]: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-compose
[Docker Desktop]: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/

[Google Domain]: https://domains.google/

[HashiCorp Terraform aws_route53_record]: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record.html

[Let's Encrypt]: https://qubitpi.github.io/letsencrypt-website/
