docs/docs/elk.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

Elastic Stack (ELK)
===================

Assuming ELK is a _non-frequently deployed_ tech asset, [Aergia] makes it a semi-automated deployment.

Setup
-----

### Get Aergia ELK Deployer

```bash
git clone git@github.com:QubitPi/aergia.git
cd hashicorp/elk
```

### Authenticating to AWS

Before we can build the AMI, we need to provide our AWS credentials to Packer. These credentials have permissions to
create, modify and delete EC2 instances.

To allow Packer to access our IAM user credentials, set our AWS access key ID and secret key as environment variables:

```bash
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<YOUR_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<YOUR_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>"
```

In addition, we need to have an _IAM user_ who has the following [AWS permissions policies]:

- **AmazonEC2FullAccess**
- **AmazonRoute53FullAccess**
- **IAMFullAccess**

### Preparing for Building AMI Image

Create a file named **aws-elk.auto.pkrvars.hcl** at any our preferred location with the following contents:

```hcl
aws_image_region           = "us-east-2"
ssl_cert_file_path         = "/absolute/path/to/server.crt"
ssl_cert_key_file_path     = "/absolute/path/to/server.key"
ssl_nginx_config_file_path = "/absolute/path/to/nginx-ssl.conf"
```

- **aws_image_region** is the region where ELK AMI will be published to. The published image will be _private_
- **ssl_cert_file_path** and **ssl_cert_key_file_path** above are the local absolute paths to SSL certificate file and
  SSL certificate key, respectively. They can be [obtained via Certbot](https://qubitpi.github.io/aergia/blog/certbot)
- **ssl_nginx_config_file_path** is the local absolute path to the Nginx config file (see **an example** below) that
  consumes the SSL certificate above and enables HTTPS.

:::tip

Here is an example of the aforementioned Nginx config file. Replace `my-domain.com` with the domain backed by the
[SSL](#ssl-certificate) accordingly:

```text
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;

    root /var/www/html;

    index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;

    server_name _;

    location / {
        try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
    }
}

server {
    root /var/www/html;

    index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;
    server_name my-domain.com;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:5601;
    }

    listen [::]:443 ssl ipv6only=on;
    listen 443 ssl;
    ssl_certificate /etc/ssl/certs/server.crt;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/ssl/private/server.key;
}

server {
    if ($host = my-domain.com) {
        return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
    }

    listen 80 ;
    listen [::]:80 ;
    server_name my-domain.com;
    return 404;
}
```

:::

### Building AMI Image

```bash
packer init .
packer fmt .
packer validate .
packer build --var-file=/absolute/path/to/aforementioned/aws-elk.auto.pkrvars.hcl aws-elk.pkr.hcl
```

Record the **Elasticsearch password (for _elastic_ user)** at command line prompt. For example

```shell
==> install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: + sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-reset-password -u elastic
==> install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: + yes
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: This tool will reset the password of the [elastic] user to an autogenerated value.
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: The password will be printed in the console.
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk:
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk:
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: Password for the [elastic] user successfully reset.
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: New value: dsrg34IKHU787iud=dio
```

In this case, the password is `dsrg34IKHU787iud=dio` which is shown in the last line of the output above.

If we see the following output in the end, if means AMI image has been built successfully:

```shell
==> Wait completed after 5 minutes 40 seconds

==> Builds finished. The artifacts of successful builds are:
--> install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: AMIs were created:
<sensitive>: ami-34gfg45herr356hre43g
```

### Preparing for Deploying EC2 Instance

Create a file named **aws-elk.auto.tfvars** at any our preferred location with the following contents:

```hcl
aws_deploy_region = "us-east-2"
zone_id = "<AWS Route 53 Zone ID>"
elk_doman = "myelk.mycompany.com"
key_pair_name = "<AWS keypair name for SSH>"
instance_name = "<AWS EC2 displayed instance name>"
security_group = "<AWS Security Group for the EC2 instance>"
```

### Deploying EC2 Instance

Copy the aforementioned `aws-elk.auto.tfvars` file into the `aergia/hashicorp/elk/instance` directory and run

```bash
cd aergia/hashicorp/elk/instance
terraform init
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

### Post Setup in EC2 Instance

As we've mentioned in the beginning, this is a semi-deployment and we still need to SSH into the box to manually
generate Kibana token & verification code. This will make the automated deploymentl logic simple and easy to maintain

```bash
sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token --scope kibana --url "https://localhost:9200"
sudo /usr/share/kibana/bin/kibana-verification-code
```

Now we can visit `https://myelk.mycompany.com` to enter the token and verification code to access our ELK instance.

#### Logstash

Logstash, at this moment, supports redirecting log lines from Filebeat to Elasticsearch and, similar to the
token and verification above, needs to be setup manually.

Create a file named **logstash-filebeat.conf** in the default location chosen by Logstash:

```bash
sudo nano /usr/share/logstash/logstash-filebeat.conf
```

Copy and paste the following contents into the file

:::info

Replace the `<password for user 'elastic'>` accordingly. If the user is _elastic_, which is the case here, the password
has been generated during the [AMI image building phase](#building-ami-image)

:::

```text
input {
    beats {
        port => "5044"
    }
}

output {
    elasticsearch {
        hosts => [ "https://localhost:9200" ]

        ssl_certificate_verification => false

        user => "elastic"

        password => "<password for user 'elastic'>"
    }
}
```

Start Logstash with

```bash
sudo /usr/share/logstash/bin/logstash -f logstash-filebeat.conf --config.reload.automatic
```

[Aergia]: https://qubitpi.github.io/aergia/
[AWS permissions policies]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction_access-management.html

Commit message:

Add justification on ELK instance size

docs/docs/elk.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

Elastic Stack (ELK)
===================

Assuming ELK is a _non-frequently deployed_ tech asset, [Aergia] makes it a semi-automated deployment.

:::caution

[Aergia] deploys ELK as a [t2.large](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/t2/) instance. This is because all
Elasticsearch, Kibana, and Logstash are contained in it, which can cause
[performance issue](https://stackoverflow.com/a/50022217) in small instance. t2.large, by experiment, is the smallest
size that supports smooth runtime.

:::

Setup
-----

### Get Aergia ELK Deployer

```bash
git clone git@github.com:QubitPi/aergia.git
cd hashicorp/elk
```

### Authenticating to AWS

Before we can build the AMI, we need to provide our AWS credentials to Packer. These credentials have permissions to
create, modify and delete EC2 instances.

To allow Packer to access our IAM user credentials, set our AWS access key ID and secret key as environment variables:

```bash
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<YOUR_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<YOUR_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>"
```

In addition, we need to have an _IAM user_ who has the following [AWS permissions policies]:

- **AmazonEC2FullAccess**
- **AmazonRoute53FullAccess**
- **IAMFullAccess**

### Preparing for Building AMI Image

Create a file named **aws-elk.auto.pkrvars.hcl** at any our preferred location with the following contents:

```hcl
aws_image_region           = "us-east-2"
ssl_cert_file_path         = "/absolute/path/to/server.crt"
ssl_cert_key_file_path     = "/absolute/path/to/server.key"
ssl_nginx_config_file_path = "/absolute/path/to/nginx-ssl.conf"
```

- **aws_image_region** is the region where ELK AMI will be published to. The published image will be _private_
- **ssl_cert_file_path** and **ssl_cert_key_file_path** above are the local absolute paths to SSL certificate file and
  SSL certificate key, respectively. They can be [obtained via Certbot](https://qubitpi.github.io/aergia/blog/certbot)
- **ssl_nginx_config_file_path** is the local absolute path to the Nginx config file (see **an example** below) that
  consumes the SSL certificate above and enables HTTPS.

:::tip

Here is an example of the aforementioned Nginx config file. Replace `my-domain.com` with the domain backed by the
[SSL](#ssl-certificate) accordingly:

```text
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;

    root /var/www/html;

    index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;

    server_name _;

    location / {
        try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
    }
}

server {
    root /var/www/html;

    index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;
    server_name my-domain.com;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:5601;
    }

    listen [::]:443 ssl ipv6only=on;
    listen 443 ssl;
    ssl_certificate /etc/ssl/certs/server.crt;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/ssl/private/server.key;
}

server {
    if ($host = my-domain.com) {
        return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
    }

    listen 80 ;
    listen [::]:80 ;
    server_name my-domain.com;
    return 404;
}
```

:::

### Building AMI Image

```bash
packer init .
packer fmt .
packer validate .
packer build --var-file=/absolute/path/to/aforementioned/aws-elk.auto.pkrvars.hcl aws-elk.pkr.hcl
```

Record the **Elasticsearch password (for _elastic_ user)** at command line prompt. For example

```shell
==> install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: + sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-reset-password -u elastic
==> install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: + yes
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: This tool will reset the password of the [elastic] user to an autogenerated value.
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: The password will be printed in the console.
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk:
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk:
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: Password for the [elastic] user successfully reset.
    install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: New value: dsrg34IKHU787iud=dio
```

In this case, the password is `dsrg34IKHU787iud=dio` which is shown in the last line of the output above.

If we see the following output in the end, if means AMI image has been built successfully:

```shell
==> Wait completed after 5 minutes 40 seconds

==> Builds finished. The artifacts of successful builds are:
--> install-elk.amazon-ebs.elk: AMIs were created:
<sensitive>: ami-34gfg45herr356hre43g
```

### Preparing for Deploying EC2 Instance

Create a file named **aws-elk.auto.tfvars** at any our preferred location with the following contents:

```hcl
aws_deploy_region = "us-east-2"
zone_id = "<AWS Route 53 Zone ID>"
elk_doman = "myelk.mycompany.com"
key_pair_name = "<AWS keypair name for SSH>"
instance_name = "<AWS EC2 displayed instance name>"
security_group = "<AWS Security Group for the EC2 instance>"
```

### Deploying EC2 Instance

Copy the aforementioned `aws-elk.auto.tfvars` file into the `aergia/hashicorp/elk/instance` directory and run

```bash
cd aergia/hashicorp/elk/instance
terraform init
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

### Post Setup in EC2 Instance

As we've mentioned in the beginning, this is a semi-deployment and we still need to SSH into the box to manually
generate Kibana token & verification code. This will make the automated deploymentl logic simple and easy to maintain

```bash
sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token --scope kibana --url "https://localhost:9200"
sudo /usr/share/kibana/bin/kibana-verification-code
```

Now we can visit `https://myelk.mycompany.com` to enter the token and verification code to access our ELK instance.

#### Logstash

Logstash, at this moment, supports redirecting log lines from Filebeat to Elasticsearch and, similar to the
token and verification above, needs to be setup manually.

Create a file named **logstash-filebeat.conf** in the default location chosen by Logstash:

```bash
sudo nano /usr/share/logstash/logstash-filebeat.conf
```

Copy and paste the following contents into the file

:::info

Replace the `<password for user 'elastic'>` accordingly. If the user is _elastic_, which is the case here, the password
has been generated during the [AMI image building phase](#building-ami-image)

:::

```text
input {
    beats {
        port => "5044"
    }
}

output {
    elasticsearch {
        hosts => [ "https://localhost:9200" ]

        ssl_certificate_verification => false

        user => "elastic"

        password => "<password for user 'elastic'>"
    }
}
```

Start Logstash with:

```bash
sudo /usr/share/logstash/bin/logstash -f logstash-filebeat.conf --config.reload.automatic
```

or with nohup at background:

```bash
nohup sudo /usr/share/logstash/bin/logstash -f logstash-filebeat.conf --config.reload.automatic &
```

[Aergia]: https://qubitpi.github.io/aergia/
[AWS permissions policies]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction_access-management.html
