docs/docs/sonatype-nexus-repository/screwdriver-cd-deployment.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Deployment via Screwdriver CD
description: Deploying Sonatype Nexus Repository via Screwdriver CD Template
---

Sonatype Nexus Repository Release Definition Template
=====================================================

hashicorp-aws offer a [Screwdriver template][Screwdriver CD template] that deploys an
[immutable][Immutable Infrastructure] instance of [Sonatype Nexus Repository] to AWS. It uses the
[screwdriver-template-main npm package] to assist with template validation, publishing, and tagging. This template tags
the latest versions with the `latest` tag.

How to Use This Template
------------------------

[Create a Screwdriver pipeline](../adaptors/screwdriver-cd#1-creating-a-screwdriver-pipeline) with the __Repo Url__
being `https://github.com/QubitPi/docker-nexus3`

![Error loading create-sd-pipeline.png](./img/create-sd-pipeline.png)

In addition, the following [Screwdriver Secrets][Screwdriver CD Secrets] needs to be defined before running the pipeline:

- [`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`](../setup#aws)
- [`AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`](../setup#aws)

To run the pipeline, fill in the AWS-related **parameters** first

![Error sonatype-nexus-repository-release-definition-template-parameters.png](img/sonatype-nexus-repository-release-definition-template-parameters.png)

Then hit "**Submit**" to start deploying.

[Immutable Infrastructure]: https://www.hashicorp.com/resources/what-is-mutable-vs-immutable-infrastructure

[Sonatype Nexus Repository]: https://github.com/QubitPi/docker-nexus3

[Screwdriver CD Secrets]: https://screwdriver-docs.qubitpi.org/user-guide/configuration/secrets
[Screwdriver CD template]: https://screwdriver-docs.qubitpi.org/user-guide/templates/job-templates
[screwdriver-template-main npm package]: https://github.com/QubitPi/screwdriver-cd-template-main

Commit message:

Change ssl-cert-base64 and ssl-cert-key-base64 from template parameter to Screwdriver Secrets (#269)

docs/docs/sonatype-nexus-repository/screwdriver-cd-deployment.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Deployment via Screwdriver CD
description: Deploying Sonatype Nexus Repository via Screwdriver CD Template
---

Sonatype Nexus Repository Release Definition Template
=====================================================

hashicorp-aws offer a [Screwdriver template][Screwdriver CD template] that deploys an
[immutable][Immutable Infrastructure] instance of [Sonatype Nexus Repository] to AWS. It uses the
[screwdriver-template-main npm package] to assist with template validation, publishing, and tagging. This template tags
the latest versions with the `latest` tag.

How to Use This Template
------------------------

Please follow the sections below to get started using this template <img src="https://github.com/QubitPi/QubitPi/blob/master/img/%E5%BF%83%E6%B5%B7/%E5%BF%83%E6%B5%B7-17.png?raw=true" height="50px"/>

### Installing the Template

Please follow the [instructions](../adaptors/screwdriver-cd#installing-templates-and-commands) here and make sure, once
done, we are able to see the two following template shown in the templates page:

- __sonatype-nexus-repository-release-definition-template__

![Error loading templates-installed.png](./img/templates-installed.png)

### Creating Pipeline from Template

[Create a Screwdriver pipeline](../adaptors/screwdriver-cd#1-creating-a-screwdriver-pipeline) with the __Repo Url__
being `https://github.com/QubitPi/docker-nexus3`

![Error loading create-sd-pipeline.png](./img/create-sd-pipeline.png)

### Configuring Pipeline

The following [Screwdriver Secrets][Screwdriver CD Secrets] needs to be defined before running the pipeline:

- [AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID](../setup#aws)
- [AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY](../setup#aws)
- SSL_CERT_BASE_64: A base64 encoded string of the content of SSL certificate file for the SSL-enabled domain for the
  Sonatype Nexus Repository
- SSL_CERT_KEY_BASE_64: A base64 encoded string of the content of SSL certificate key file for the SSL-enabled domain
  for the Sonatype Nexus Repository

### Running Pipeline

To run the pipeline, fill in the AWS-related **parameters** first

![Error sonatype-nexus-repository-release-definition-template-parameters.png](img/sonatype-nexus-repository-release-definition-template-parameters.png)

Then hit "**Submit**" to start deploying.

[Immutable Infrastructure]: https://www.hashicorp.com/resources/what-is-mutable-vs-immutable-infrastructure

[Sonatype Nexus Repository]: https://github.com/QubitPi/docker-nexus3

[Screwdriver CD Secrets]: https://screwdriver-docs.qubitpi.org/user-guide/configuration/secrets
[Screwdriver CD template]: https://screwdriver-docs.qubitpi.org/user-guide/templates/job-templates
[screwdriver-template-main npm package]: https://github.com/QubitPi/screwdriver-cd-template-main
