docs/docs/webservice/screwdriver-cd-deployment.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Deployment via Screwdriver CD
description: Deploying Jersey-Jetty Based Webservice via Screwdriver CD Template
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Jersey Webservice Release Definition Templates
==============================================

hashicorp-aws set of [Screwdriver template][Screwdriver CD template]s that deploys
[immutable][Immutable Infrastructure] instances of instantiated [Jersey Webservice Template]s to AWS. It uses the
[screwdriver-template-main npm package] to assist with template validation, publishing, and tagging.

This release definition contains the following templates, _each corresponding to a branch in
[Jersey Webservice Template] GitHub repo_:

- [Deploying the `master` branch](https://github.com/QubitPi/hashicorp-aws/tree/master/adaptors/screwdriver-cd/templates/jersey-webservice-template-basic-sd-template.yaml)
- [Deploying the `jpa-elide` branch](https://github.com/QubitPi/hashicorp-aws/tree/master/adaptors/screwdriver-cd/templates/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-sd-template.yaml)

All templates tag the latest versions with the `latest` tag.

:::note

- We take an opinionated webservice deployment, which goes without SSL, because all backend API should site behind a
  proxy or [gateway](../kong-api-gateway)
- All webservice executables are assumed to be WAR and will be generated in Screwdriver executor runtime (not in Packer
  or Terraform environment)

:::

How to Use This Template
------------------------

[Create a Screwdriver pipeline](../adaptors/screwdriver-cd#1-creating-a-screwdriver-pipeline) with the URL of the either
forked or instantiated repo of `https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template`

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="basic" label="Basic Webservice Repo URL" default>

![Error loading create-sd-pipeline-basic.png](./img/create-sd-pipeline-basic.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="jpa" label="JPA Webservice Repo URL">

:::note

The branch name of __jpa-elide__ needs to be appended with a `#` sign as shown below

:::

![Error loading create-sd-pipeline-basic.png](./img/create-sd-pipeline-jpa.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

In addition, the following [Screwdriver Secrets][Screwdriver CD Secrets] needs to be defined before running the pipeline:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="basic" label="Basic Webservice Repo URL" default>

    - [__AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID__](../setup#aws)
    - [__AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY__](../setup#aws)

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="jpa" label="JPA Webservice Repo URL">

    - [__AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID__](../setup#aws)
    - [__AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY__](../setup#aws)
    - __SERVER_USERNAME__: Username for pulling internal data model dependency. This value will be used by settings.xml
      during deployment in the following way

      ```xml
      <settings>
      ...
      
          <servers>
              <server>
                  <id>...</id>
                  <username>SERVER_USERNAME</username>
                  <password>...</password>
              </server>
          </servers>
      
      ...
      ```

      If the data model is a public dependency, simply ignore this secret

    - __SERVER_PASSWORD__: User's password for pulling internal data model dependency. This value will be used by
      settings.xml during deployment in the following way

      ```xml
      <settings>
      ...
      
          <servers>
              <server>
                  <id>...</id>
                  <username>...</username>
                  <password>SERVER_PASSWORD</password>
              </server>
          </servers>
      
      ...
      ```

      If the data model is a public dependency, simply ignore this secret

    - __DB_USER__: The JPA database user with both read and write access
    - __DB_PASSWORD__: The JPA database user's password for read and write access
    - __DB_URL__: The JPA database's hostname such as, if it's an AWS RDS,
      `mysql-instance1.123456789012.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`

      :::tip

      For more information on finding the connection information for an RDS instance, please refer to
      [this AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_ConnectToInstance.html#USER_ConnectToInstance.EndpointAndPort)

      :::

    - __DB_DRIVER__: The regular SQL DB driver. For MySQL 5 for example, it's `com.mysql.jdbc.Driver`. For MySQL 8,
      it's `com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver`
    - __DB_DIALECT__: The regular SQL DB dialect. Most of the time it's just `org.hibernate.dialect.MySQLDialect`
    - __HIBERNATE_HBM2DDL_AUTO__: : What to do with existing JPA database when webservice starts; can be one of the 4
      values:

      1. _validate_: validate that the schema matches, make no changes to the schema of the database. _This is the default
         value of **HIBERNATE_HBM2DDL_AUTO**_
      2. _update_: update the schema to reflect the entities being persisted
      3. _create_: creates the schema necessary for your entities, destroying any previous data.
      4. _create-drop_: create the schema as in create above, but also drop the schema at the end of the session. This is
         great in development or for testing.

      :::note
      
      This property is exactly the same as [Hibernate `hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto` property].
      
      :::

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

To run the pipeline, fill in the AWS-related **parameters** first

![Error loading jersey-webservice-release-definition-templates-parameters.png](img/jersey-webservice-release-definition-templates-parameters.png)

Then hit "**Submit**" to start deploying.

### Configuration

If a custom `settings.xml` is needed, simply place it in the root of the pipeline project, in which case the template
will use it to override all other `settings.xml` configs. If no `settings.xml` is provided, it will simply use the
default one, such as `~/.m2/settings.xml`

[Immutable Infrastructure]: https://www.hashicorp.com/resources/what-is-mutable-vs-immutable-infrastructure

[Jersey Webservice Template]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/

[Screwdriver CD Secrets]: https://screwdriver-docs.qubitpi.org/user-guide/configuration/secrets
[Screwdriver CD template]: https://screwdriver-docs.qubitpi.org/user-guide/templates/job-templates
[screwdriver-template-main npm package]: https://github.com/QubitPi/screwdriver-cd-template-main

Commit message:

Specify Maven repo URL while pulling private data models (#247)

docs/docs/webservice/screwdriver-cd-deployment.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Deployment via Screwdriver CD
description: Deploying Jersey-Jetty Based Webservice via Screwdriver CD Template
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Jersey Webservice Release Definition Templates
==============================================

hashicorp-aws set of [Screwdriver template][Screwdriver CD template]s that deploys
[immutable][Immutable Infrastructure] instances of instantiated [Jersey Webservice Template]s to AWS. It uses the
[screwdriver-template-main npm package] to assist with template validation, publishing, and tagging.

This release definition contains the following templates, _each corresponding to a branch in
[Jersey Webservice Template] GitHub repo_:

- [Deploying the `master` branch](https://github.com/QubitPi/hashicorp-aws/tree/master/adaptors/screwdriver-cd/templates/jersey-webservice-template-basic-sd-template.yaml)
- [Deploying the `jpa-elide` branch](https://github.com/QubitPi/hashicorp-aws/tree/master/adaptors/screwdriver-cd/templates/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-sd-template.yaml)

All templates tag the latest versions with the `latest` tag.

:::note

- We take an opinionated webservice deployment, which goes without SSL, because all backend API should site behind a
  proxy or [gateway](../kong-api-gateway)
- All webservice executables are assumed to be WAR and will be generated in Screwdriver executor runtime (not in Packer
  or Terraform environment)

:::

How to Use This Template
------------------------

[Create a Screwdriver pipeline](../adaptors/screwdriver-cd#1-creating-a-screwdriver-pipeline) with the URL of the either
forked or instantiated repo of `https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template`

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="basic" label="Basic Webservice Repo URL" default>

![Error loading create-sd-pipeline-basic.png](./img/create-sd-pipeline-basic.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="jpa" label="JPA Webservice Repo URL">

:::note

The branch name of __jpa-elide__ needs to be appended with a `#` sign as shown below

:::

![Error loading create-sd-pipeline-basic.png](./img/create-sd-pipeline-jpa.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

In addition, the following [Screwdriver Secrets][Screwdriver CD Secrets] needs to be defined before running the pipeline:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="basic" label="Basic Webservice Repo URL" default>

    - [__AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID__](../setup#aws)
    - [__AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY__](../setup#aws)

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="jpa" label="JPA Webservice Repo URL">

    - [__AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID__](../setup#aws)
    - [__AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY__](../setup#aws)
    - __SERVER_USERNAME__: Username for pulling internal data model dependency. This value will be used by settings.xml
      during deployment in the following way

      ```xml
      <settings>
      ...
      
          <servers>
              <server>
                  <id>...</id>
                  <username>SERVER_USERNAME</username>
                  <password>...</password>
              </server>
          </servers>
      
      ...
      ```

      If the data model is a public dependency, simply ignore this secret

    - __SERVER_PASSWORD__: User's password for pulling internal data model dependency. This value will be used by
      settings.xml during deployment in the following way

      ```xml
      <settings>
      ...
      
          <servers>
              <server>
                  <id>...</id>
                  <username>...</username>
                  <password>SERVER_PASSWORD</password>
              </server>
          </servers>
      
      ...
      ```

      If the data model is a public dependency, simply ignore this secret

    - __DATA_MODELS_REPO_URL__: The repository URL that hosts data models JAR release. For example
      `https://my-artifactory.my-company.com/repository/maven-releases`
    - __DB_USER__: The JPA database user with both read and write access
    - __DB_PASSWORD__: The JPA database user's password for read and write access
    - __DB_URL__: The JPA database's hostname such as, if it's an AWS RDS,
      `mysql-instance1.123456789012.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`

      :::tip

      For more information on finding the connection information for an RDS instance, please refer to
      [this AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_ConnectToInstance.html#USER_ConnectToInstance.EndpointAndPort)

      :::

    - __DB_DRIVER__: The regular SQL DB driver. For MySQL 5 for example, it's `com.mysql.jdbc.Driver`. For MySQL 8,
      it's `com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver`
    - __DB_DIALECT__: The regular SQL DB dialect. Most of the time it's just `org.hibernate.dialect.MySQLDialect`
    - __HIBERNATE_HBM2DDL_AUTO__: : What to do with existing JPA database when webservice starts; can be one of the 4
      values:

      1. _validate_: validate that the schema matches, make no changes to the schema of the database. _This is the default
         value of **HIBERNATE_HBM2DDL_AUTO**_
      2. _update_: update the schema to reflect the entities being persisted
      3. _create_: creates the schema necessary for your entities, destroying any previous data.
      4. _create-drop_: create the schema as in create above, but also drop the schema at the end of the session. This is
         great in development or for testing.

      :::note
      
      This property is exactly the same as [Hibernate `hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto` property].
      
      :::

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

To run the pipeline, fill in the AWS-related **parameters** first

![Error loading jersey-webservice-release-definition-templates-parameters.png](img/jersey-webservice-release-definition-templates-parameters.png)

Then hit "**Submit**" to start deploying.

### Configuration

If a custom `settings.xml` is needed, simply place it in the root of the pipeline project, in which case the template
will use it to override all other `settings.xml` configs. If no `settings.xml` is provided, it will simply use the
default one, such as `~/.m2/settings.xml`

[Immutable Infrastructure]: https://www.hashicorp.com/resources/what-is-mutable-vs-immutable-infrastructure

[Jersey Webservice Template]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey-webservice-template/

[Screwdriver CD Secrets]: https://screwdriver-docs.qubitpi.org/user-guide/configuration/secrets
[Screwdriver CD template]: https://screwdriver-docs.qubitpi.org/user-guide/templates/job-templates
[screwdriver-template-main npm package]: https://github.com/QubitPi/screwdriver-cd-template-main
