docs/docs/recipes/certbot.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

aergia::certbot
===============

Free SSL Certificates with Certbot running on Nginx.

:::caution

HTTP:80 must be open before running this recipe.

:::

[Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) provides free SSL certificates for our websites to use secure connections.
[Certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/) is free open source software that allows us to easily create Let's Encrypt SSLs on
our Linux server.

Recipe Details
--------------

### Install Certbot

`aergia::certbot` installs Certbot on Ubuntu with _snapd_ using the following steps:

1. Install _snapd_:

   ```bash
   sudo apt install snapd
   ```

2. Ensure the latest snapd version has been installed:

   ```bash
   sudo snap install core; sudo snap refresh core
   ```

3. Install Certbot with snapd:

   ```bash
   sudo snap install --classic certbot
   ```

4. Create a symlink to ensure Certbot runs:

   ```bash
   sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/certbot
   ```

5. [Install Nginx](https://stackoverflow.com/a/64571090/14312712), since `aergia::certbot` uses Nginx-based Certbot:

   ```bash
   sudo apt install python3-certbot-nginx -y
   ```

### Create an SSL Certificate with Certbot

After [Certbot has been installed](#install-certbot), `aergia::certbot` runs Certbot to create SSL certificates and
modify Nginx configuration file to automatically redirect HTTP requests to HTTPS. Or, add "certonly" to create the SSL
certificates without modifying system files:

```bash
sudo certbot --nginx
```

Commit message:

Self-review: add copyright header

docs/docs/recipes/certbot.md, after:

[//]: # (Copyright Jiaqi Liu)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

aergia::certbot
===============

Free SSL Certificates with Certbot running on Nginx.

:::caution

HTTP:80 must be open before running this recipe.

:::

[Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) provides free SSL certificates for our websites to use secure connections.
[Certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/) is free open source software that allows us to easily create Let's Encrypt SSLs on
our Linux server.

Recipe Details
--------------

### Install Certbot

`aergia::certbot` installs Certbot on Ubuntu with _snapd_ using the following steps:

1. Install _snapd_:

   ```bash
   sudo apt install snapd
   ```

2. Ensure the latest snapd version has been installed:

   ```bash
   sudo snap install core; sudo snap refresh core
   ```

3. Install Certbot with snapd:

   ```bash
   sudo snap install --classic certbot
   ```

4. Create a symlink to ensure Certbot runs:

   ```bash
   sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/certbot
   ```

5. [Install Nginx](https://stackoverflow.com/a/64571090/14312712), since `aergia::certbot` uses Nginx-based Certbot:

   ```bash
   sudo apt install python3-certbot-nginx -y
   ```

### Create an SSL Certificate with Certbot

After [Certbot has been installed](#install-certbot), `aergia::certbot` runs Certbot to create SSL certificates and
modify Nginx configuration file to automatically redirect HTTP requests to HTTPS. Or, add "certonly" to create the SSL
certificates without modifying system files:

```bash
sudo certbot --nginx
```
